Benchmarking
Methods

Consult the guide
Stage

Research
Definition
Generation
Assessment
Type
Quantitative
Qualitative
With users
Expert
Classification
Duration
Medium
Difficulty
Low
Expertise
Medium
Participants
Few
What is it?
Benchmarking consists of evaluating the products that are the competitors of the one we are designing, from the point of view of the end user. The aim is to know their strengths and characteristics, and discover the design trends in the context we are addressing.

Benchmarking can also be done with a comparative intention, observing products that are not competitors of ours but that have similar functionalities. The comparison provides a good starting point for discovering which factors can lead to an optimal user experience.

Materials
Computer or other sources of information about the products we are going to analyze; tools (digital or paper) for taking notes; report editing tools.

Other denominations
Competitive analysis and comparative analysis.

When?
In the initial phases of the project, once the briefing and therefore the general objectives and conditions for technological development are clear.

Throughout the project, other benchmarks can be carried out to investigate specific aspects (for example, visual trends in the environment for which it is designed).

How?
Select the products to analyze.
Define the analysis criteria.
Analyze each product, taking into account the defined criteria.
Summarize the main findings and insights in an executive list applicable to the design.
Advantages
Benchmarking allows:

Knowing the competitors of the product being designed.
Understanding how our product is situated in the competitive environment.
Discovering what differentiating factors our product can present.
Knowing state of the art in the environment of the project.
Knowing what usability guidelines are taken into account in similar products.
Gathering ideas to solve specific problems.
It is also a low-cost method.

Drawbacks
The analysis of competitors could lead to unconscious imitation. This factor must be taken into account during the design process to assess whether the decisions made are fully dependent on the conditions and objectives of the project or solutions observed in other products.
Notes
In order not to have a simple list of functionalities, we must go beyond cataloguing. It is important to analyze how the factors analyzed affect the design.
It is useful to highlight the good practices analyzed to incorporate them in later stages of the design process.
Benchmarking can be proposed as a group exercise, so that the participants contribute different perspectives on the products analyzed.
Guides
This content is expanded through the following guide: “Benchmarking Guide”

Benchmarking
GUIDE

Before beginning
This guide extends the Benchmarking file. Benchmarking is carried out in the initial phases of a project to know the characteristics of the competitors of our product and/or to know how other products – not necessarily competitors – solve certain problems.

This method can be repeated at different points in the project to analyze specific issues, such as the visual appearance of the products compared.

Preparation
Select the products to analyze
The first step is to choose the products to be analyzed. They can be competitors of our product, but they can also be products that contain functionalities or objectives similar to those of the project we are designing.

It is recommended to analyze between five and seven products in order to have a broad view, without devoting excessive time to the review of issues that, with more products, could become repetitive.

Define the analysis criteria
In order to achieve relevant results, we must define what criteria we will follow, taking into account the specific objectives of the analysis.

The criteria can be general or specific. For example, the analysis of the contents, design or navigation of a website would be general criteria. How the search has been resolved, the main menu, or the checkout process would be specific.

It is highly recommended to gather these criteria in a table in which each one occupies a row, with the products analyzed in columns. The table must allow annotations to be included.

Development / execution
After the products and criteria have been selected, the analysis task begins.

Each product must be thoroughly observed as if it were being used for the first time, focusing mainly on the established criteria.

Both strengths (good practices) and weaknesses (issues to avoid) are noted. Notes can also be taken of any other issues that are relevant to the project.

It is important to carry out a graphic record of the products analyzed: if they are physical products, photographs of the analyzed details can be taken; if they are digital products (websites or apps), it is very appropriate to take screenshots of the most notable examples.

Analysis / Results
After the analysis, the annotations are reviewed to draw conclusions applicable to the project. All the documentation generated is gathered in a report, which would have to include:

The list of products analyzed, if possible with their references (for example, if the product has an associated website, we will include the URL).
The criteria used in the analysis.
The specific analysis of each of the products, with the corresponding annotations and images.
An overall summary of the analysis, collecting strengths and weaknesses and the most noteworthy annotations. This summary can include the table of criteria/products, with a rating of 0 if it does not meet the criterion and 10 if it optimally meets the criterion, and the whole intermediate range. You can also use a simple 0/1 (does not meet/meets) rating.
An executive summary, in the form of a list, that briefly collects the most relevant conclusions directly applicable to the project, accompanied by design recommendations.
Examples
General analysis table template
Product 1	Product 2	Product 3	Product 4	Product…
Criterion 1					
Criterion 2					
Criterion 3					
Criterion 4					
Criterion…					
✔ Meets the criterion
✘ Does not meet the criterion